docs/cudf/source/user_guide/memory-profiling.md, before:

(memory-profiling-user-doc)=

# Memory Profiling


Peak memory usage is a common concern in GPU programming since the available GPU memory is typically less than available CPU memory. To easily identify memory hotspots, cudf provides a memory profiler.

## Enabling memory profiling

1. Use `cudf.set_option`:

    ```python
    >>> import cudf
    >>> cudf.set_option("memory_profiling", True)
    ```

2. Set the environment variable ``CUDF_MEMORY_PROFILING`` to ``1`` prior to the
launch of the Python interpreter:

    ```
    CUDF_MEMORY_PROFILING="1" python -c "import cudf"
    ```

## Get profiling result

To get the result of the profiling, use {py:func}`cudf.utils.performance_tracking.print_memory_report`. In the following, we enable profiling, do some work, and then print the profiling results:

```python
>>> import cudf
>>> from cudf.utils.performance_tracking import print_memory_report
>>> cudf.set_option("memory_profiling", True)
>>> cudf.DataFrame({"a": [1, 2, 3]})  # Some work
   a
0  1
1  2
2  3
>>> print_memory_report()  # Pretty print the result of the profiling
Memory Profiling
================

Legends:
ncalls       - number of times the function or code block was called
memory_peak  - peak memory allocated in function or code block (in bytes)
memory_total - total memory allocated in function or code block (in bytes)

Ordered by: memory_peak

ncalls memory_peak memory_total filename:lineno(function)
     1          32           32 cudf/core/dataframe.py:690(DataFrame.__init__)
     2           0            0 cudf/core/index.py:214(RangeIndex.__init__)
     6           0            0 cudf/core/index.py:424(RangeIndex.__len__)
```

It is also possible to access the raw profiling data through {py:func}`cudf.utils.performance_tracking.get_memory_records`.

Commit message:

don't call rmm.statistics.enable_statistics()

docs/cudf/source/user_guide/memory-profiling.md, after:

(memory-profiling-user-doc)=

# Memory Profiling

Peak memory usage is a common concern in GPU programming since the available GPU memory is typically less than available CPU memory. To easily identify memory hotspots, cudf provides a memory profiler. In comes with an overhead so avoid using it in performance-sensitive code.

## Enabling memory profiling

First, we need to enable memory profiling in [RMM](https://docs.rapids.ai/api/rmm/stable/guide/). One way to do this is by calling {py:func}`rmm.statistics.enable_statistics()`. This will add a statistics resource adaptor to the current RMM memory resource, which enables cudf to access memory profiling information. See the RMM documentation for more details.

Second, we need to enable memory profiling in cudf by using either of the following:

1. Use {py:func}`cudf.set_option`:

    ```python
    >>> import cudf
    >>> cudf.set_option("memory_profiling", True)
    ```

2. Set the environment variable ``CUDF_MEMORY_PROFILING`` to ``1`` prior to the
launch of the Python interpreter:

    ```
    CUDF_MEMORY_PROFILING="1" python -c "import cudf"
    ```

To get the result of the profiling, use {py:func}`cudf.utils.performance_tracking.print_memory_report`.

In the following example, we enable profiling, do some work, and then print the profiling results:

```python
>>> import cudf
>>> from cudf.utils.performance_tracking import print_memory_report
>>> from rmm.statistics import enable_statistics
>>> enable_statistics()
>>> cudf.set_option("memory_profiling", True)
>>> cudf.DataFrame({"a": [1, 2, 3]})  # Some work
   a
0  1
1  2
2  3
>>> print_memory_report()  # Pretty print the result of the profiling
Memory Profiling
================

Legends:
ncalls       - number of times the function or code block was called
memory_peak  - peak memory allocated in function or code block (in bytes)
memory_total - total memory allocated in function or code block (in bytes)

Ordered by: memory_peak

ncalls memory_peak memory_total filename:lineno(function)
     1          32           32 cudf/core/dataframe.py:690(DataFrame.__init__)
     2           0            0 cudf/core/index.py:214(RangeIndex.__init__)
     6           0            0 cudf/core/index.py:424(RangeIndex.__len__)
```

It is also possible to access the raw profiling data by calling: {py:func}`cudf.utils.performance_tracking.get_memory_records`.
